### Urgent Care Facility

This data is from the [Homeland Infrastructure Foundation-Level Data] (https://hifld-geoplatform.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/urgent-care-facilities).  Urgent Care Facilities Urgent care is defined as the delivery of ambulatory medical care outside of a hospital emergency department on a walk-in basis without a scheduled appointment. (Source: Urgent Care Association of America) The Urgent Care dataset consists of any location that is capable of providing emergency medical care and must provide emergency medical treatment beyond what can normally be provided by an EMS unit, must be able to perform surgery, or must be able to provide recuperative care beyond what is normally provided by a doctor's office. In times of emergency, the facility must be able to accept patients from the general population or patients from a significant subset of the general population (e.g., children). Florida and Arizona license Urgent Care facilities within their state. However, the criteria for licensing and the criteria for inclusion in this dataset do not appear to be the same. For these two states, this dataset contains entities that fit TGS' criteria for an Urgent Care facility but may not be licensed as Urgent Care by the state. During processing, TGS found that this is a rapidly changing industry. Although TGS intended for all Urgent Care facilities to be included in this dataset, the newest facilities may not be included. Entities that are excluded from this dataset are administrative offices, physician offices, workman compensation facilities, free standing emergency rooms, and hospitals. Urgent Care facilities that are operated by and co-located with a hospital are also excluded because the locations are included in the hospital dataset. ID# 10194253 is a "mobile" urgent care center that provides urgent care to private residences. This entity is plotted at its administrative building. Records with "-DOD" appended to the end of the [NAME] value are located on a military base, as defined by the Defense Installation Spatial Data Infrastructure (DISDI) military installations and military range boundaries. At the request of NGA, text fields in this dataset have been set to all upper case to facilitate consistent database engine search results. At the request of NGA, all diacritics (e.g., the German umlaut or the Spanish tilde) have been replaced with their closest equivalent English character to facilitate use with database systems that may not support diacritics. This dataset does not contain any Urgent Care facilities in American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The currentness of this dataset is indicated by the [CONTDATE] field. Based upon this field, the oldest record is dated 11/22/2004 and the newest record is dated 07/17/2009. This data is available in csv format and shapefiles.
